as I climb into the evening sky the
weather conditions seem good
but the local weather radar shows a
storm nearby growing with alarming speed
however I needn't worry this is not a
storm
it's the bats we've just left leaving
their roost
they start from a number of points each
is the mouth of a different cave the
swarms are vast with up to 20 million
bats leaving a single entrance some fly
low over Texas accuracy must start
declined
at 10,000 feet up bats are so widely
dispersed that it's very difficult to
see them but I've got with me my bat and
there's one and what is more that is a
feeding buzz so they're eating something
the question is what
they're already a kilometer above the
ground and most are still climbing
but now the radar picks up another front
blowing in from New Mexico and the bats
are flying towards it what could there
be to attract them to these great
heights scientists find out what's
flying high in the sky at night with a
device like this
it
moths
vast numbers of these insects use the
prevailing winds at altitude to travel
up from the tropics to feed and bats
climb up to 3 kilometres into the night
sky to catch them
bats are so numerous and so voracious
that the individuals in this one cave
below me eat a hundred and twenty tons
of insects every night
[Music]
you